---
layout: firmware
title: OpenXC chipKIT Firmware Troubleshooting
---

<div class="page-header">
    <h1>Troubleshooting</h1>
</div>

## Multiple COM Ports
If you have more than one serial (COM) port active, you may need to explicitly specify which port to use.
The second argument is optional and will accept which port name you'd like to use. For example:

OS X/Linux:

    $ script/upload_hex.sh <firmware>.hex /dev/ttyUSB2
    
Windows:

    $ script/upload_hex.sh <firmware>.hex com4

## Windows Notes

If, when using Cygwin, you see the error

    $ '\r: command not found 
    
then your Git configuration added
Windows-style ''CRLF'' line endings. To resolve the issue, run this command in Cygwin:

    $ set -o igncr && export SHELLOPTS
    
## Installing Dependencies

If the flashing script failed, you may need to manually install the necessary dependencies.

### FTDI Driver

If you are using Windows or OS X, you might need to install the FTDI Driver, which manages the virtual COM port.
You can download the driver directly from FTDI's website [here][FTDI-Driver].


### AVR Programmer

The AVR Programmer is included in MPIDE, a package which your computer might or might not already have. Regardless,
here are the steps you'll need to take to obtain an AVR Programmer.

**If MPIDE is installed**: The AVR Programmer ''avrdude'' is included in MPIDE. To resolve the dependency issue,
you need to set the ''MPIDE_DIR'' environment variable in your terminal to point to your MPIDE installation.
Check below for more information on setting this.

**If MPIDE is not installed**: If you don't have MPIDE (don't worry if you don't, you only need the AVR programmer),
you can install the programmer separately:

* Linux - Find ''avrdude'' in your distribution's package manager.

* OS X - Install ''avrdude'' with Homebrew

* Windows - Run the Cygwin installer and install the ''MPIDE'' package. If you've already installed Cygwin, don't worry:
the installer can be used to install new packages to an existing Cygwin installation. Once MPIDE is installed, open a 
new Cygwin terminal and follow the below instructions to set the MPIDE environment variables. 

#### Configuring the MPIDE Environment Variables

The ''MPIDE_DIR'' environment variable must be set to the proper installation path of ''MPIDE'' for the upload script to work.
To set the variable, find your MPIDE install directory (the default is shown below) and use the export command:

    $ export MPIDE_DIR=/Applications/Mpide.app/Contents/Resources/Java

When using ''export'', variables are only saved for your current terminal session (and only in that terminal window). To make
the change permanent, add the '''export'' command above to the file ''~/.bashrc'' (in Windows(Cygwin)/Linux) or ''~/.bash_profile''
(in OS X), then start a new terminal.

<div class="page-header">
<h2>Next Steps</h2>
</div>

If you're still having issues getting your firmware to flash, search the [Google Group][gg] for the error you're getting,
and if you still need help, open a new discussion.

[gg]: http://groups.google.com/group/openxc

[FTDI-Driver]: http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/VCP.htm